How to find the right maternity clothing size? About VeNove's size table.
by Kasia K April 8, 2021
A few words about VeNove size table.

Many people complain about the size inconsistency across fashion brands. Sizing varies from one producer to another and the same fact applies to maternity fashion. One of the reasons for that variance is because the fashion brands are developing their own sizing to create products for who they believe their main customer (or ideal customer) would be.

The fashion producers need to decide for whom they are making their cloths. That's why size medium may be very different for one customer group and for another. Sizes may vary not only between brands but also within the same brand depending for example on the style and fit of the garment.

And most importantly - there is simply no such thing as a one standard size chart.  This is a good thing, because people come in so many shapes and sizes - so must the cloths. We can see it clearly when drafting a basic garment pattern - although we use many of the body's measurements,  we can not measure everything. .A body shape of two clients with the same (used for pattern developing) body measurements  can be very different even  if many of the measurements seem to be the same. That's why their basic blocks patterns may look very differently.
When shopping for VeNove maternity wear, you should look for the size you would normally use before your pregnancy. However, there is a very important change I made in  the sizing - when designing maternity fashion, I made enough room not only for the growing belly but also for the growing breasts (in the pregnancy and after). That's why VeNove size table varies from the standard charts used by fashion producers and many pattern makers. For example in our medium size the breast circumstance is 92-96 while in the standardly used tables that's the number for the size large (or European 42). This change in our patters allows you to use your normal  pre-pregnancy clothing size.
