By sewing your own period panties, you are not only helping the environment by reducing waste, but also promoting personal health and hygiene. With this guide, you can create your own ecological period panties in no time. Find your Period panties gusset making kit in the VeNove store and get started on this exciting journey towards sustainability and comfort. 

 Check the previous post to learn more about printing and assembling of PDF patterns. 

  You can find the period panties pattern in VeNove store! 

The first step is to cut out all the pattern pieces, which already include seam allowance. The main seam allowance is 7mm, which is typically the width of a serger seam. However, there is no seam allowance on the center front and back (on fold-line), and the seam allowance on leg holes and waist is zero. You may adjust the seam allowance to your liking.

The detailed instructions with photos are here.
To make VeNove period panties, you will need three pattern pieces: the front, the back, and the gusset. The gusset will be made out of jersey and three other layers: the moisture-wicking layer, the absorbent layer, and the waterproof layer. First, baste the gusset layers together - the moisture-wicking layer with the absorbent layer, and the waterproof layer with the jersey gusset. You will have two gusset pieces, which you will attach to the front and back.

Next, attach the other gusset piece to the back of the panties. The back piece will be between two gusset pieces, with the seams hidden inside. Finally, attach the second gusset piece to the front piece. Place the panties as shown in the picture, and roll the back and front pieces creating a "sandwich." Place the front in-between the two gusset layers at the front gusset seam, with the right side of the front facing the outer gusset. Sew all the layers at once.

After turning over to the right side, baste all the gusset layers together since this piece is quite thick. Then, attach elastic to the leg holes using an elastic band, fold over elastic, or elastic lace. Sew together one of the side seams using a serger or elastic stitches, and secure the seam edges with a few stitches.

Measure the elastic band for the hip/waist line and apply it to the front and back of the hip, starting at the open side seam and finishing at the open side seam. Finally, sew up the second side seam and push your side seams to the back. Use a small zigzag as a topstitch to secure them flat down.
